So the first thing you'll find
with typing in TypeScript,
you get really defensive
because TypeScript is like hey,
that could be a no and
I'm not comfortable with no, right?
So you're gonna have to be very defensive
like making sure nothing could ever be no,
or TypeScript is gonna get
really upset with you, okay?
So the first thing that we're
gonna say here is this modal,
what kind of thing is it?
It doesn't really know.
And the other thing that's
gonna help us out here.
So as we convert each file,
we're gonna change it from
modal.js to we're going to
say rename here, modal.tsx.
Yes, you do have to put the x or else
TypeScript is not gonna check it as react.
So I'm gonna change that to tsx here.
And now we can start type checking.
Okay?
So the first thing that we're gonna
say is this modal, what is it?
It is actually what we
call a function component.
So now we can import this function
definition from react and
say this modal is actually a function
component, which is pretty cool.
And now it knows here,
this is a function component.
That's good.
TypeScript is also gonna do a lot of
inference for us this modal route you can
see it actually already knows like,
okay, I know what this is.
This is an HTML element, right?
So it does that,
that's called type inference.
But now if I try and say immediately
after that modal route equals five,
it's gonna be like, hey, you tricked
me and I'm not okay with that, right?
It's gonna say, hey, you can't do this
because you already told me this is gonna
be an HTML element, if you try and
make it a number, I'm not okay with that.
Okay, so that's the first thing.
The next thing is this mutable.
So this L ref here,
it is a mutable type of any.
So the thing that we're trying to get away
with is we don't want to have any anys,
and what is an any?
If I say const x is an any,
this means that it can be anything, right?
So I can say next thing x equals string.
And it's going to be like, well,
okay, you told me it was in any.
It's not being used anywhere,
which is why it's underlined there.
But we're trying to get away from that
because that is where TypeScript is not
helpful, right?
We don't want to have anys we want to
have everything to be typed really well.
So we're gonna say this
elref here is it's either a,
Mutable ref object,
it always is that actually,
but it's either gonna be an HTML
div element or it's gonna be null.
So this thing is called a generic, which
I know we're getting into a lot of things
here but
it's basically a function of types.
And the way you call it is with this,
right?
So, I'm telling you this mutable ref
object is either going to contain, right?
Because this ref contains things.
It's either gonna be a div or
it's gonna be a null.
In this case it starts with a null and
then we're here we set it to be a div.
But here you can see that I am
totally okay with that, right?
Everything's going okay.
Okay, good so far.
Now something that we need to do
here is like, it's gonna say, hey,
This is kind of sketchy here,
I don't really know if this l ref,
like I can assign null or
I can append child if it's null.
So I need to be a bit more defensive
about and say if null modal root or
elRef.current, return.
Now why am I doing this?
If it ever got here,
which had never should, right?
But TypeScript is forcing me to be
more defensive than I need to be.
But if it ever got here,
this would be disastrous and
it would crash our effect, right?
And we don't want that.
So here I'm just saying in advanced, hey,
if this doesn't exist, just don't do it.
So it's upset that this could
still be null basically, right?
So here if I put this into a function, and
then I can say if, lref.current.
So if somehow this got removed some
other way, Then don't do that, right?
But basically what it was getting upset
about is that it doesn't expect this
to return anything and
I was doing a one liner and
just ignoring the return type there and
it doesn't like that.
And I think if I don't have this,
it's gonna get upset.
No, it's probably okay there,
is that true?
Alright, well, we'll leave it in there
that's in my notes and but, yeah, again,
we're just being defensive here of like,
if it does exist, do it, if not,
then don't do anything.
There's nothing to clean up.
All right,
any questions about this so far?
So we just typed modal.
If you're gonna do a migration
from TypeScript, or sorry,
from JavaScript to TypeScript,
here's my best suggestion for you.
Find the leaf nodes of your React
application and that when I say leaf nodes
I mean like the most outer things
that things do not depend on.
So in this case modal is a leaf
node of this application that,
it doesn't import anything else, right?
And go convert those ones first and
then move your way up the chain
until eventually we're
gonna convert app last and
you'll save yourself a lot
of heartache by doing that.